8/18/2026

Do we see the same moon?
When I look at the sky,
I see craters and canyons
that tell me I'll never come home,
and stray white-washed sunbeams
that tell me you'll never come home;
you see craters and canyons
when you look at the sky.
Do we see the same moon?



... My rambling thoughts ...

A little palindromic verse about perspective.
The point is that two people can observe the same physical object (or idea or whatever) at the same moment in time,
and yet come to different conclusions about what that shared experience means.
Importantly, you can only ever truly know what it means from your own point of view.
We both see the same craters and canyons. I see a message. You might, too, but it's opaque to me.
I can only wonder if this experience means to you what it means to me.

The poem begins with the question: "Do we see the same moon?",
as one might ask a distant lover when looking at the night sky simultaneously,
in order to feel connected by that moment.
Notice the flow here. The poem is essentially read in an ABCDCBA pattern,
with "I" becoming "you" half-way through, as soon as the moonlight is invoked.
THe semicolon after "you'll never come home" indicates a switch in perspectives.
For the first six lines, I explore the night sky from my own perspective;
I see craters and canyons and "white-washed sunbeams" (the sun's rays reflected off the moon),
and I decide that they are trying to tell me something.
Then, in lines 7-8, the perspective shifts, in a way.
It is my recollection of what *you* are observing.
That is -- the only thing I know for sure is that you see the moon for what it is.
I have no idea what, if anything, you think it symbolizes.
Finally, I call back to the original question: Do we see the same moon?
In other words -- I know we are literally looking at the same thing,
but does it mean the same thing to you that it does to me?
Of course this is meant to apply to all sorts of things,
especially when it comes to values and politics and whatnot.
How can we be sure if we see eye-to-eye?